Let's dive into authenticating users, as I mentioned I'll use firebase since it's a ready to use backend
because I don't want to focus on the backend logic, that is something for a node, PHP, Ruby or whatever
backend language you'll use in course. On firebase, we can simply get working authentication by going to the
authentication area and then selecting a sign in method and I want to use the traditional method of
storing email and password on our own server,
here on the firebase servers. For that, I'll
click on email password and I'll simply enable it by setting the switch to enabled and hitting save,
now users can sign in with their email and password.
Now let's also go to the database and there on the rules tab,
I want to ensure that we only grant read access to users if we are authenticated.
So on read, I will revert this to auth unequal to null, auth is some object firebase knows which simply
means is the user authenticated, it stores information about the authenticated user
and if this is null, then it means the user is not authenticated,
so by checking if it's not
null, we check if the user is authenticated. So let's simply publish it and with that, we already should
see one effect,
if we go back to the application and reload this page on the dashboard, we actually get an unauthorized
error here and that's good,
now we'll fix this later.
So important, we enabled authentication,
now we could authenticate through the firebase SDK
but actually I want to show you an approach which is reusable with any backend which is a restful API.
And thankfully, firebase also gives us some rest API endpoints we can use to create new users or sign
existing users in,
you can find these endpoints by simply searching for firebase auth rest API,
then it should be the first result, the referenced documentation for this rest API
and there on the right, you see a couple of well typical tasks like sign up with email and password.
Then you see the rest API endpoint to which you have to send that request and the data which you should
pass along.
Now we'll of course do this together, we'll do this in the next lecture.